docs: Added documentation and cross-link for Azure site extension (#18896)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/hosting-services/nodejs-agent-microsoft-azure.mdx

  - Agents
  - Nodejs agent
  - Hosting services
  - Azure
  - Azure Site Extension
metaDescription: How to install APM for Node.js on Microsoft Azure Web Apps.
redirects:
  - /docs/agents/nodejs-agent/hosting-services/nodejs-agent-microsoft-azure
  - /docs/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/install-nodejs-agent-azure-site-extension
  - /docs/nodejs/nodejs-agent-on-microsoft-azure
translate:
  - jp
  - kr
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---
## Installation methods

If you're running a web app and deploying as code on Windows, you can easily install the Node agent using our Azure Site Extension. []See these instructions](/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/install-nodejs-azure-site-extension).

> If you're deploying a container app, you can follow our []instructions for Docker](/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/install-nodejs-agent-docker).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're deploying a container app, you can follow our [instructions for Docker](/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/install-nodejs-agent-docker).
```

Reviewer: container app or containerized app?

Author: Container app specifically. The alternative is "containerized web app" or "web app deployed as a container" and they all have different behaviors and constraints.

> For Linux-hosted web apps, you'll need to install the agent manually, which we describe below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to install the agent manually for Linux-hosted web apps, which we describe below.
```

> ## Manual Installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Manual Installation [#manual-installation]
```

## Compatibility and requirements [#compatibility-requirements]

Azure Site Extensions are only available for Windows-based App Service apps that are deployed as code. For applications running on Windows 32, full Code Level Metrics support (file path, line, column) is not available. Profiling falls back to function name only.

## Install the Node.js agent with Azure Site Extension

To install the New Relic Azure Site Extension, add the `NewRelic.Azure.WebSites.Extension.NodeAgent` site extension from the Azure home page. Follow these steps:

1. From the Azure Home page, click the App Services tile, then select the target application in the displayed list.
2. Scroll down to <DNT>**Extensions**</DNT> in the options listed on the left under the <DNT>**Development Tools**</DNT> category.
3. Click on <DNT>**+ Add**</DNT> at the top of the page to toggle the extension drop down, then select <DNT>**New Relic Node Agent**</DNT>. Check the box for accepting the legal terms
4. Click <DNT>**Add**</DNT> on the bottom of the page to start installing the extension.

Once installed, the extension creates the following artifacts:

> - Folder: `C:\home\SiteExtensions\NewRelic.Azure.Websites.Extension.NodeAgent`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Folder: `C:\home\SiteExtensions\NewRelic.Azure.Websites.Extension.NodeAgent`
```

> - XDT: `applicationHost.xdt` that will add the necessary `NODE_OPTIONS` environment variable on application startup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* XDT: `applicationHost.xdt` that will add the necessary `NODE_OPTIONS` environment variable on application startup
```

Reviewer: We usually spell out acronyms on first use, and we did this patterrn in some of the other agent set ups. What do you think?

Author: I'd generally be all for it, though people working with Microsoft systems and XML probably know it as XML Document Transform, so I'm not sure if we need to define it explicitly.

> - The New Relic Node agent and dependencies will be installed into `C:\home\site\wwwroot\node_modules`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The New Relic Node agent and dependencies will be installed into `C:\home\site\wwwroot\node_modules`
```

> If the New Relic agent has been installed successfully and logging has been enabled, the agent will append its logs to a file at `C:\home\site\wwwroot\newrelic_agent.log`. If the extension fails to install, a log file is created at `C:\home\SiteExtensions\NewRelic.Azure.Websites.Extension.NodeAgent\install.log`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a successful installation of the agent with logging enabled, the agent will append its logs to a file at `C:\home\site\wwwroot\newrelic_agent.log`. If the extension fails to install, a log file is created at `C:\home\SiteExtensions\NewRelic.Azure.Websites.Extension.NodeAgent\install.log`.
```

Reviewer: For some variety when reading, not high priority lol

## Configure the Node.js agent [#configure-agent]

> The New Relic Node agent is configured with the `newrelic.js` file, or via environment variables. [See our documentation for more detailed configuration](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Node.js agent is configured with the `newrelic.js` file, or via environment variables. [See our documentation for more detailed configuration](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/apm/agents/nodejs-agent/installation-configuration/nodejs-agent-configuration/).
```

Reviewer: Describing the agent as the NR agent on first use is good enough, so let's shorten it as just the agent or the Node.js agent (to match other patterns).

> Once the site extension is installed, you'll need to manually enter one configuration item before restarting your application.

Reviewer: Lines 48-50 is hard to parse. Typically we want to reserve bulleted lists with child (and grand child lists) to follow this kind of pattern:

Sentence goes here:

* Child item 1
*Child item 2
    *gchild item 1
    * gchild item 2

Rather than a bunch of single bullets after single bullets. I think we can both make it readable and remove the lists so it looks something like this:

> Once the site extension is installed, you'll need to manually enter one configuration item before restarting your application. From the Azure portal on the options listed on the left, find **Settings** and scroll down to **Environment variables**. Add the `NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY` variable with your license key value. 
>
> The Node agent automatically adds the `NODE_OPTIONS` environment variable with a value of `-r newrelic`. This key-value pair starts the agent. Any previously defined `NODE_OPTIONS` will be removed and reset with -r newrelic.

Author: I definitely prefer the rewrite, though there's a slight tweak for accuracy that I'll add in the next commit.

  - On the options listed on the left, scroll down to "Environment variables" located under the "Settings" category and add the following:
    - `NEW_RELIC_LICENSE_KEY` - Your New Relic license key value

The Node agent automatically adds the `NODE_OPTIONS` environment variable with a value of `-r newrelic` which starts the agent.
  - Note: Any previously defined `NODE_OPTIONS` will be removed and reset with `-r newrelic`.

>   <Callout variant="important">

Reviewer: Per our style guide, we want to limit the number of iMPORTANT tips. At best it can cause "Tip" exhaustion and cause readers to glaze past them, at worst it might indicate a product-side problem (that is, if there are a lot of important tips that can devastate install, it gives the impression that the product is fragile). Can we choose one important tip and change the rest to regular sentences?

Author: I'd added the site extension text (with its own Important blocks) to this page, which definitely makes this worse. Instead, I'm separating it out and cross linking. With that change, this Azure hosting page would be restored to its previous number of important blocks. (Which may still be too many, but that's a separate issue.)
